README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# Surge

[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/surge-downloader/surge)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/surge-downloader/surge?style=flat-square&color=blue)](https://github.com/surge-downloader/surge/releases)
[![Go Version](https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/surge-downloader/surge?style=flat-square&color=cyan)](go.mod)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-grey.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)
[![BuyMeACoffee](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pachadotdev/buymeacoffee-badges/main/bmc-violet.svg)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/surge.downloader)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/surge-downloader/surge?style=social)](https://github.com/surge-downloader/surge/stargazers)

**Blazing fast, open-source TUI download manager built in Go.**

[Installation](#installation) • [Usage](#usage) • [Benchmarks](#benchmarks) • [Extension](#browser-extension)

</div>

---

## What is Surge?

Surge is designed for power users who prefer a keyboard-driven workflow. It features a beautiful **Terminal User Interface (TUI)**, as well as a background **Headless Server** and a **CLI tool** for automation.

![Surge Demo](assets/demo.gif)

## Why use Surge?

Most browsers open a single connection for a download. Surge opens multiple (up to 32), splits the file, and downloads chunks in parallel. But we take it a step further:

- **Blazing Fast:** Designed to maximize your bandwidth utilization and download files as quickly as possible.
- **Multiple Mirrors:** Download from multiple sources simultaneously. Surge distributes workers across all available mirrors and automatically handles failover.
- **Sequential Download:** Option to download files in strict order (Streaming Mode). Ideal for media files that you want to preview while downloading.
- **Daemon Architecture:** Surge runs a single background "engine." You can open 10 different terminal tabs and queue downloads; they all funnel into one efficient manager.
- **Beautiful TUI:** Built with Bubble Tea & Lipgloss, it looks good while it works.

For a deep dive into how we make downloads faster (like work stealing and slow worker handling), check out our **[Optimization Guide](docs/OPTIMIZATIONS.md)**.

---

## Installation

Surge is available on multiple platforms. Choose the method that works best for you.

| Platform / Method | Command / Instructions | Notes |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Prebuilt Binary** | [Download from Releases](https://github.com/surge-downloader/surge/releases/latest) | Easiest method. Just download and run. |
| **Arch Linux (AUR)** | `yay -S surge` | Managed via AUR. |
| **macOS / Linux (Homebrew)** | `brew install surge-downloader/tap/surge` | Recommended for Mac/Linux users. |
| **Windows (Winget)** | `winget install surge-downloader.surge` | Recommended for Windows users. |
| **Go Install** | `go install github.com/surge-downloader/surge@latest` | Requires Go 1.21+. |

---

## Usage

Surge has two main modes: **TUI (Interactive)** and **Server (Headless)**.

For a comprehensive list of all commands, flags, and configuration options, please refer to the **[Detailed Settings & Configuration Guide](docs/SETTINGS.md)**.

### 1. Interactive TUI Mode

Just run `surge` to enter the dashboard. This is where you can visualize progress, manage the queue, and see speed graphs.

```bash
# Start the TUI
surge

# Start TUI with downloads queued
surge https://example.com/file1.zip https://example.com/file2.zip

# Combine URLs and batch file
surge https://example.com/file.zip --batch urls.txt
```

### 2. Server Mode (Headless)

Great for servers, Raspberry Pis, or background processes.

```bash
# Start the server
surge server start

# Start the server with a download
surge server start https://url.com/file.zip

# Check server status
surge server status
```

`surge` and `surge server start` bind the HTTP API to `0.0.0.0` (all interfaces) by default.
This means the server is accessible via `localhost` (127.0.0.1) as well as your local network IP.

The API is token-protected. Generate/read your token from:

```bash
~/.surge/token
```

### 3. Remote TUI

Connect to a running Surge daemon (local or remote).

```bash
# Connect to a local daemon (auto-discovery)
surge connect

# Connect to a remote daemon
surge connect 192.168.1.10:1700 --token <token>
```

By default, `surge connect` uses:

- `http://` for loopback and private IP targets
- `https://` for public/hostname targets

---

## Benchmarks

We tested Surge against standard tools. Because of our connection optimization logic, Surge significantly outperforms single-connection tools.

| Tool      | Time       | Speed          | Comparison   |
| --------- | ---------- | -------------- | ------------ |
| **Surge** | **28.93s** | **35.40 MB/s** | **—**        |
| aria2c    | 40.04s     | 25.57 MB/s     | 1.38× slower |
| curl      | 57.57s     | 17.79 MB/s     | 1.99× slower |
| wget      | 61.81s     | 16.57 MB/s     | 2.14× slower |

> _Test details: 1GB file, Windows 11, Ryzen 5 5600X, 360 Mbps Network. Results averaged over 5 runs._

We would love to see you benchmark surge on your system!

---

## Browser Extension

The Surge extension intercepts browser downloads and sends them straight to your terminal. It communicates with the Surge client on port **1700** by default.

### Chrome / Edge / Brave

1.  Clone or download this repository.
2.  Open your browser and navigate to `chrome://extensions`.
3.  Enable **"Developer mode"** in the top right corner.
4.  Click **"Load unpacked"**.
5.  Select the `extension-chrome` folder from the `surge` directory.

### Firefox

1.  **Stable:** [Get the Add-on](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/surge/)
2.  **Development:**
    - Navigate to `about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox`.
    - Click **"Load Temporary Add-on..."**.
    - Select the `manifest.json` file inside the `extension-firefox` folder.

---

## Community & Contributing

We love community contributions! Whether it's a bug fix, a new feature, or just cleaning up typos.

You can check out the [Discussions](https://github.com/surge-downloader/surge/discussions) for any questions or ideas, or follow us on [X (Twitter)](https://x.com/SurgeDownloader)!

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/surge-downloader/surge/blob/main/LICENSE) for more information.

---

<div align="center">
<a href="https://star-history.com/#surge-downloader/surge&Date">
 <picture>
   <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=surge-downloader/surge&type=Date&theme=dark" />
   <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=surge-downloader/surge&type=Date" />
   <img alt="Star History Chart" src="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=surge-downloader/surge&type=Date" />
 </picture>
</a>
  
<br />
If Surge saved you some time, consider giving it a ⭐ to help others find it!
</div>

Commit message:

Revise README for clarity and support details
Updated README to enhance project description and support information.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# Surge
**Blazing fast TUI download manager built in Go for power users**

[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/surge-downloader/surge)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/surge-downloader/surge?style=flat-square&color=blue)](https://github.com/surge-downloader/surge/releases)
[![Go Version](https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/surge-downloader/surge?style=flat-square&color=cyan)](go.mod)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-grey.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)
[![BuyMeACoffee](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pachadotdev/buymeacoffee-badges/main/bmc-violet.svg)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/surge.downloader)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/surge-downloader/surge?style=social)](https://github.com/surge-downloader/surge/stargazers)


[Installation](#installation) • [Usage](#usage) • [Benchmarks](#benchmarks) • [Extension](#browser-extension)

</div>

---

## What is Surge?

Surge is designed for power users who prefer a keyboard-driven workflow. It features a beautiful **Terminal User Interface (TUI)**, as well as a background **Headless Server** and a **CLI tool** for automation.

![Surge Demo](assets/demo.gif)

---

## Why use Surge?

Most browsers open a single connection for a download. Surge opens multiple (up to 32), splits the file, and downloads chunks in parallel. But we take it a step further:

- **Blazing Fast:** Designed to maximize your bandwidth utilization and download files as quickly as possible.
- **Multiple Mirrors:** Download from multiple sources simultaneously. Surge distributes workers across all available mirrors and automatically handles failover.
- **Sequential Download:** Option to download files in strict order (Streaming Mode). Ideal for media files that you want to preview while downloading.
- **Daemon Architecture:** Surge runs a single background "engine." You can open 10 different terminal tabs and queue downloads; they all funnel into one efficient manager.
- **Beautiful TUI:** Built with Bubble Tea & Lipgloss, it looks good while it works.

For a deep dive into how we make downloads faster (like work stealing and slow worker handling), check out our **[Optimization Guide](docs/OPTIMIZATIONS.md)**.

---

## Support the Project

We are just two CS students building Surge in between classes and exams. We love working on this, but maintaining a project of this scale takes time and resources. That's where you come in!

If Surge saves you time, consider supporting the development! Donations go directly toward:

- **Publishing the Extension:** Paying the Chrome Web Store fee so you can finally install the extension officially (no more sideloading!).
- **Dev Tools:** Licenses for tools like **GoReleaser Pro** to help us automate our builds.
- **Debrid Integration:** Covering subscription costs so we can test and build native Debrid support.

[**☕ Buy us a coffee**](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/surge.downloader)

*Totally optional—your stars, issues, and contributions already mean the world to us! :)*

---

## Installation

Surge is available on multiple platforms. Choose the method that works best for you.

| Platform / Method | Command / Instructions | Notes |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Prebuilt Binary** | [Download from Releases](https://github.com/surge-downloader/surge/releases/latest) | Easiest method. Just download and run. |
| **Arch Linux (AUR)** | `yay -S surge` | Managed via AUR. |
| **macOS / Linux (Homebrew)** | `brew install surge-downloader/tap/surge` | Recommended for Mac/Linux users. |
| **Windows (Winget)** | `winget install surge-downloader.surge` | Recommended for Windows users. |
| **Go Install** | `go install github.com/surge-downloader/surge@latest` | Requires Go 1.21+. |

---

## Usage

Surge has two main modes: **TUI (Interactive)** and **Server (Headless)**.

For a comprehensive list of all commands, flags, and configuration options, please refer to the **[Detailed Settings & Configuration Guide](docs/SETTINGS.md)**.

### 1. Interactive TUI Mode

Just run `surge` to enter the dashboard. This is where you can visualize progress, manage the queue, and see speed graphs.

```bash
# Start the TUI
surge

# Start TUI with downloads queued
surge https://example.com/file1.zip https://example.com/file2.zip

# Combine URLs and batch file
surge https://example.com/file.zip --batch urls.txt
```

### 2. Server Mode (Headless)

Great for servers, Raspberry Pis, or background processes.

```bash
# Start the server
surge server start

# Start the server with a download
surge server start https://url.com/file.zip

# Check server status
surge server status
```

`surge` and `surge server start` bind the HTTP API to `0.0.0.0` (all interfaces) by default.
This means the server is accessible via `localhost` (127.0.0.1) as well as your local network IP.

The API is token-protected. Generate/read your token from:

```bash
~/.surge/token
```

### 3. Remote TUI

Connect to a running Surge daemon (local or remote).

```bash
# Connect to a local daemon (auto-discovery)
surge connect

# Connect to a remote daemon
surge connect 192.168.1.10:1700 --token <token>
```

By default, `surge connect` uses:

- `http://` for loopback and private IP targets
- `https://` for public/hostname targets

---

## Benchmarks

We tested Surge against standard tools. Because of our connection optimization logic, Surge significantly outperforms single-connection tools.

| Tool      | Time       | Speed          | Comparison   |
| --------- | ---------- | -------------- | ------------ |
| **Surge** | **28.93s** | **35.40 MB/s** | **—**        |
| aria2c    | 40.04s     | 25.57 MB/s     | 1.38× slower |
| curl      | 57.57s     | 17.79 MB/s     | 1.99× slower |
| wget      | 61.81s     | 16.57 MB/s     | 2.14× slower |

> _Test details: 1GB file, Windows 11, Ryzen 5 5600X, 360 Mbps Network. Results averaged over 5 runs._

We would love to see you benchmark Surge on your system!

---

## Browser Extension

The Surge extension intercepts browser downloads and sends them straight to your terminal. It communicates with the Surge client on port **1700** by default.

### Chrome / Edge / Brave

1.  Clone or download this repository.
2.  Open your browser and navigate to `chrome://extensions`.
3.  Enable **"Developer mode"** in the top right corner.
4.  Click **"Load unpacked"**.
5.  Select the `extension-chrome` folder from the `surge` directory.

### Firefox

1.  **Stable:** [Get the Add-on](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/surge/)
2.  **Development:**
    - Navigate to `about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox`.
    - Click **"Load Temporary Add-on..."**.
    - Select the `manifest.json` file inside the `extension-firefox` folder.

---

## Community & Contributing

We love community contributions! Whether it's a bug fix, a new feature, or just cleaning up typos.

You can check out the [Discussions](https://github.com/surge-downloader/surge/discussions) for any questions or ideas, or follow us on [X (Twitter)](https://x.com/SurgeDownloader)!

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/surge-downloader/surge/blob/main/LICENSE) for more information.

---

<div align="center">
<a href="https://star-history.com/#surge-downloader/surge&Date">
 <picture>
   <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=surge-downloader/surge&type=Date&theme=dark" />
   <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=surge-downloader/surge&type=Date" />
   <img alt="Star History Chart" src="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=surge-downloader/surge&type=Date" />
 </picture>
</a>
  
<br />
If Surge saved you some time, consider giving it a ⭐ to help others find it!
</div>
